Game Design
=======

Currently, my game is designed under three separate classes: the main Shapeout.java, Level.java, and Block.java. The Block class implements the block functionality in the game and new Block objects are instantiated and placed in the Level object/class. The Level class implements the level functionality of the game and is responsible for scene management and handling different level shapes when the Level object is instantiated. The Shapeout class is the manager type class where most of the game code is located. 

To add a new level to this game, the creator would simply need to create a new text file with the shape of the level by indicating the number of sides and the number of blocks and the location and type of all of these blocks. However, you can only add a new level of the currently defined shapes (triangle, square, and pentagon). My code is not abstract enough to handle creating a newly shaped level easily, since code in many places would need to be updated accordingly. My overall code is designed this way to treat blocks as objects with the ability to handle objects bouncing off the block and keeping track of the block type. Also, the level is also treated as an object with the ability to keep track of the shape of the level and the blocks in the level. However, the main way in which my code's design is lacking is that the object functionalities are not clearly separated and too much functionality (of these objects) are coded in the main Shapeout.java class/file. I tried to minimize these dependencies when refactoring, but clearly my objects do not follow the open closed design principal.

To add a new block, the creator would need to instantiate a new block object. But to add a new block type, multiple changes to the code would need to be made in different places in the code, highlighting the lack of flexibility in my project design.

A similar analysis can be made to add a new power-up functionality.

A major design choice was to create classes for Level and Block, but was not correctly implemented following the open closed design principals. Thus, not all of the implementation of the objects were encapsulated in the class. This means that adding new types of these objects would require modifying the code in multiple places. A design choice was made to assume the paddle and ball as part of the Shapeout (game) class rather than as part of the Level class. One simplification to the requirements I made was that when the ball hits a power-up block, the power-up is activated for the rest of the level and cannot be toggled off.
